Hi, Mystery Recapped here. Today, I'm going to
explain an American psychological thriller film
called “Shutter Island.” Spoilers
ahead! Watch out and take care!
In 1954, U.S. Marshal, Edward "Teddy" Daniels,
meets his new partner, Chuck Aule, in a ship.
They are on their way to the Ashecliffe Hospital
for the criminally insane on Shutter Island. The
duo is there to investigate the disappearance
of a highly dangerous patient, Rachel Solando.
They are welcomed by the chief security officer.
The Ashecliffe Hospital consists of three wards.
Ward A and B are for men and women
respectively whilst ward C is where
the most mentally ill patients. Admission
to ward C is restricted for everyone.
They meet the lead psychiatrist of the hospital,
Dr. John Cawley. He informs the Marshals about the
case they were called to investigate. A patient
named Rachel Solando has recently disappeared
from the hospital. Rachel had killed all three
of her children by drowning them in a lake near
her house. She had then brought them inside, set
them on the chairs, and had a meal with them. She
still believes that her children are alive.
She is highly delusional. Rachel’s mind has
created a false reality to escape the guilt
of killing her own children. She has created
an elaborated story about the asylum being her
house in Berkshires...giving everyone around her
a role to play in her fantasy. According to her,
the workers of the asylum are her delivery men,
milkmen, and postal workers. The doctor then takes
them to check Rachel’s room to search for clues.
The only window in the room has bars, and
the doors are always locked from the outside.
They have no clue as to how she disappeared; it is
as if she evaporated straight through the walls.
Teddy somehow finds a tiny note she had
left. It says “The law of 4, Who is 67.”
No one in the room knows what the note means.
Teddy suspects one of the staffs has helped
Rachel run away. He asks Dr. Cawley for the
staff’s information, but the doctor is hesitant.
Teddy is now doubtful of his
behavior. They then set off to
investigate outdoors but do not find any
clue about her. While investigating there,
the island lighthouse and caves below the
rocky mountains catch Teddy’s eye.
Back at the hospital, Dr. Cawley finally agrees
for a group interview. The duo interviews the
staff member, but they do not get any useful
information about Rachel’s escape. However,
one of the nurses reveals that Rachel’s primary
psychiatrist, doctor Lester Sheehan, held a group
discussion before her disappearance. So they
demand to meet him. However, Dr. Cawley reveals
that Dr. Lester has left the island for a vacation
immediately after Rachel Solando disappeared.
That night, the doctors refuse to provide Teddy
with the files about the staff’s information.
This agitates Teddy, so he bluffs
about wanting to quit the case.
At night, Teddy dreams of
his wife, Dolores Chanal.
Dolores had died in a fire. In the dream,
she tells him that Rachel is on the island.
She adds that a man named Andrew Laeddis is
there too....before burning into ashes.
The next day, Teddy interrogates the patients who
attended a therapy session with Rachel...prior
to her disappearance. One of them writes a
secret note on Teddy’s notepad that says “RUN.”
Teddy asks every patient about a guy named
Andrew Laeddis, however, every patient seems
to get nervous hearing his name; no one admits
to knowing Andrew. Teddy suspects that all the
patients have been coached to hide a dark secret.
When asked by Chuck, he tells him that Andrew was
the maintenance man who worked at the apartment
he and his wife lived in a few years back.
In fact, Andrew started the fire that
his wife died in. Teddy reveals that he
has specifically picked this case because
he knew that Andrew is now a patient at
Ashecliffe hospital; he wants to have revenge.
Teddy starts to get severe migraine headaches.
He hallucinates his experiences
as a U.S. Army soldier during the
liberation of Dachau... including reprisals
against the guards. In his hallucination,
he sees several men he has killed and a heap of
dead bodies. He particularly always looks at the
corpse of a little girl in that heap.
In the evening, Teddy and Chuck go to
investigate the island itself, but because of a
hurricane, they get stuck in a deserted house.
There, Teddy tells him about a man named George
Noyce who used to be a patient of the asylum.
George had pled to an electric chair rather than
being sent back to the asylum. Teddy speculates
it is because the asylum is conducting some kind
of experiments on the patients. One of the reasons
he took this case was to collect evidence
to show the world, the asylum’s real motive.
He thinks that the experiments take place on
ward C, so Andrew Laeddis must also be there.
When they get back to the hospital, both are
given new clothes. In a meeting, Teddy hears
Dr. Cawley talk about the sixty-six patients
of the hospital. He figures the “who is 67”
written on Rachel’s note...is her asking about
the sixty-seventh patient of the hospital.
But Dr. Cawley dismisses his claims and reveals
that Rachel Solando has already been found.
Shocked, the Marshals go to see her. And
rightfully so, she is sitting on her bed. She was
found by the officers on top of the lighthouse.
Rachel mistakes Teddy for her dead husband and
suddenly becomes very angry. When he gets out
of there, Teddy gets severe migraine headaches.
His hallucinations get worse and he sees himself
in front of piles of dead bodies. But this time,
the little girl is lying with Rachel’s dead body.
She tells him that he should have saved her.
He then sees Andrew Laeddis who apologizes to
him for causing the fire that killed his wife.
Next, a bloodied Rachel is with her dead
children. He helps her take them out to the lake.
He suddenly wakes up from the dream. Then, Teddy’s
wife comes in through the door to tell him that
Andrew Laeddis is not dead. She wants Teddy to
find him, and then kill him. Teddy wakes up in the
morning and realizes that it was all a dream.
The following day, all the electric security
system fails due to the storm...giving Chuck and
Teddy a chance to go to the infamous ward C.
There, Teddy meets George Noyce, a
patient in solitary confinement. George tells him
about the experiments going on in the lighthouse.
He claims that the doctors are experimenting
on patients, some of whom are lobotomized.
The officials of the hospital knew all this time
of Teddy’s plan to expose them. In fact, they
knowingly appointed him for the job. According to
George, everyone on the island, including Chuck,
is in an elaborate plan to declare Teddy a patient
of the hospital and get him to the lighthouse.
Teddy now believes that since Laeddis is not
in ward C, he is definitely in the lighthouse.
Later, Teddy and Chuck move towards the lighthouse
to investigate it. They get into a little argument
midway so they go on different ways. Teddy comes
across a dead end, so he goes back to where Chuck
was... only to find his dead body on the ground
down the cliff. But when he goes down to check,
Chuck has disappeared. Then Teddy finds a cave.
Inside it...is a woman. She introduces herself
as the real Rachel Solando. Rachel used to
be a psychiatrist at Ashecliffe Hospital.
But when she got to know about the
illegal experiments done by the hospital,
she protested, so she was falsely accused of
being insane and was admitted into the hospital.
But Rachel had somehow managed to run away
from there, and hide in the tiny cave.
Everyone on the island knows about the
experiments. The asylum conducts a surgery on its
patients called the transorbital lobotomy, where
they electrically shock the patient, pull out some
nerves fiber from the eyes. According to her,
Teddy won’t get away alive from the island.
The next morning, Teddy goes back to the
hospital. He asks Dr. Cawley about Chuck,
but shockingly, Cawley doesn’t remember him.
In fact, every evidence of Chuck’s existence
is gone. Teddy is now distressed. He believes
that this is an attempt to make him look crazy.
He plans to distract the staff by burning
a car to run away to the lighthouse.
The explosion successfully distracts
everyone, and Teddy swims to the lighthouse.
He threatens a guard, and
manages to go on top of it.
He finally arrives in the lighthouse; he tries to
figure out what experiment is carried out here.
When he opens the last room, there is no sort
of experiment going on as he had assumed. Dr.
Cawley sits in the middle of the room on his desk.
Teddy confronts him about the real Rachel Solando,
but Dr. Cawley is weirdly calm. He tells Teddy
that he has been a patient of the hospital for
two years now. Teddy thinks that the doctor wants
to convince him that he is insane to hold him on
the island. But Dr. Cawley has all the proof.
Teddy’s real name is Andrew Laeddis and he is an
extremely delusional patient of the Ashecliffe
Hospital. Andrew is in fact the sixty-seventh
patient of the hospital ,and the most
dangerous patient, incarcerated in Ward
C for murdering his manic depressive wife
Dr Cawley shows him that the names "Edward
Daniels" and "Rachel Solando"... are just anagrams
of the names "Andrew Laeddis" and "Dolores
Chanal"... with the same thirteen letters.
Andrew has created another self, Edward "Teddy"
Daniels to avoid the guilt of his horrendous
crime. And to go along with the character of
Teddy, he has also created a false reality in his
brain that justifies Teddy being on this island.
Rachel Solando never existed, it was a
product of Andrew’s mind. The past week,
doctors had decided to let Andrew play out his
fantasy in order to bring him back to reality.
This is his last chance at sanity..after which he
will be lobotomized as per the court’s order.
Then, Chuck comes into the room and
introduces himself as Dr. Lester Sheehan.
In reality, Chuck has been Andrew’s primary
doctor for two years now. Hearing the truth,
Andrew gets agitated and attacks Dr. Lester.
Dr. Cawley calms him by showing him the pictures
of his three dead children. One of them is the
little girl who is always in Andrew’s dreams.
He finally calms down. He goes unconscious and
begins to have a flashback about what actually
happened to him and his wife, Dolores.
In his flashback, we see Andrew who came back
home from work that day. He was surprised to see
Dolores had killed all three of their children
by drowning them in the lake. Andrew blamed
himself for not saving the kids, so he shot
his wife dead for murdering the children.
When he wakes up, he is back to his senses.
He admits that Rachel Solando and Teddy
Daniels are just characters he made up.
Teddy’s wife had drowned their
children in the lake near their cabin,
and because of this, he had killed his wife.
The doctors are satisfied to see he has come back,
but is scared because he has relapsed
before. Some time later, Dr. Lester and
Andrew are chatting when he refers to the doctor
as Chuck again. The doctors are disappointed.
The warden gestures to the orderlies, and
Andrew is taken away to be lobotomized.
Andrew asks Dr. Lester if it would be
worse "to live as a monster, or to die
as a good man?" A stunned Lester calls Andrew
"Teddy" but he does not respond to the name.
The movie ends as we see Andrew peacefully
going with the officials to be lobotomized.
Now, for the explanation of the movie.
The whole movie is from the point of a mentally
ill patient, Andrew Laeddies who thinks he
is a US Marshal investigating a case.
Andrew’s wife, Dolores Chanal, had always been
mentally ill, but he loved her too much to let her
go. One day when Andrew came back home from work,
Dolores had killed all three of their children by
drowning them in the lake. Andrew blamed himself
for not saving the kids. This was the reason the
girl in his dreams told him that he should have
saved her. He shot his wife dead for murdering
the children. But Andrew’s mind could not handle
the grief and guilt of his family’s death.
So, he painted himself as Edward “Teddy” Daniels.
In reality, the name “Edward Daniels” is just
“Andrew Laeddis” with mismatched letters; and
so is “Rachel Solando” to “Dolores Chanal”.
In his fantasy, Andrew is still a US
Marshal and his reasoning for being on
the island is that he is there to investigate the
disappearance of Rachel Solando, while actually,
Rachel is just a nurse of the hospital.
Similarly, Andrew gave a role to everyone
around him to match his fantasy. He painted
his doctor, Lester, as his partner Chuck.
Him finding the real Rachel Solando in the
cave was just a part of his hallucinations.
At the beginning of the movie, we see
“Teddy” tell “Chuck” that Dolores had
died in an apartment fire. This is because she had
burned their apartment building once before.
Two weeks prior, Andrew had beaten up
another ward C patient named George Noyce.
So the officials had ordered to lobotomize
him. Dr. Cawley’s last resort to bring
Andrew back to reality was to let him
play the role of Teddy for a week.
Hence, the whole hospital participated in Andrew’s
fantasy. But they are only able to bring him back
to his senses for a few hours.
However, at the end of the story,
Andrew doesn’t react to being called Teddy and
peacefully goes to be lobotomized...suggesting
that Andrew had come back to his senses but he
did not want to live as a monster anymore.
That’s my explanation for the
movie “Shutter Island.”
Subscribe for more videos like this, turn
on notifications, and leave a like to
help the channel out.
Thank you for watching.